CISC 1115 TR0 – Spring 2021
Science Section
Professor Yedidyah Langsam
Department of Computer and Information Science
Room 2109N
718-951-5657
Email: langsam@sci.brooklyn.cuny.edu
Home page: http://eilat.sci.brooklyn.cuny.edu
Skype: bccisprof
Course Requirements
IMPORTANT NOTE: For pedagogical reasons, I will require all students to have
their cameras on during both lectures and examinations. Face-to-face teaching is the
only way to have an effective learning process. Students who do not wish to use their
cameras should choose another section. If on any given day, there is a reason why
you cannot turn your camera on, you will need to write me in advance.
Required Textbooks:
 Allen Downey and Chris Mayfield, Think Java: How to Think Like a Computer
Scientist, Version 6.1.3, Green Tea Press, 2016, Creative Commons License.
http://greenteapress.com/thinkjava6/thinkjava.pdf
This is our main text for learning Java.
 Yedidyah Langsam, Workbook for Java, First Edition
This book contains a large number of solved problems, plus two sample final
exams. You should use it on your own, to go over material covered in class. A
copy should be purchased at Far Better Printing, 43 Hillel Pl, Brooklyn, NY
11210 b/t Campus Rd & Kenilworth Pl. Make sure you get the latest version as
earlier editions had many errors.
Far Better Printing is now open from 10AM to 3PM. You may also order by
email:
sales@farbetterprinting.com
Cost would be $45 each with shipping and you can email your requests to this
email with their contact phone number, Name and ship to address.
 Class Handouts
 Supplementary Text (not required): Introduction to Java Programming, Brief
Edition, Y. Daniel Lang, 11th edition, Person, 2017
Also download the NetBeans tutorial from:
http://www.sci.brooklyn.cuny.edu/~goetz/java/netbeans.pdf
The following page has lots of useful information for the class including instructions
for downloading the NetBeans IDE which we will be using in class.
http://www.sci.brooklyn.cuny.edu/cisc1115/
Install the NetBeans IDE from:
https://netbeans.apache.org/download/nb120/nb120.html
Be sure to install the correct version for your computer.
Class Meetings:
Classes will meet Tuesdays and Thursday, from 10:10 – 12:15 PM using Zoom.
Although attendance is not mandatory, you are responsible for whatever is done in class,
whether or not you are there. In particular, you are responsible for all homework assigned
in class. Make sure you get the notes and assignments from someone if you miss a
class.
Exams:
There will be two exams. The first exam will be after about 12 or 13 classes. The
second exam will be sometime in the last week or so of the term. Together, the exams
will count for one third of your grade.
Final Exam:
There will be a cumulative final exam, which will count for one third of your grade.
Programs:
There will be a total of 8 or 9 programs assigned throughout the semester. Each
program will be run on either a PC or a Mac.
The programs will be assigned roughly every third or fourth meeting of the class.
Typically, each program will be due two or three class meetings after it is assigned. For
example, if a program is assigned on Tuesday, then it will be due on Thursday of the next
week, or the class after that. There will be a penalty for lateness, 5% per class late. I will
no longer accept assignments after 25 points of penalty have been accumulated. Each
program will be graded and returned to you, usually by the next class.
 You will have to get a thumb drive which will be used to store backups of your
programs. All submissions will be done via email. We do NOT use Blackboard in this
class. Please make sure to backup all your work. Do not place all your eggs in one basket!
Together, the programs will count for one third of your grade.
Office Hours:
Office hours will be held via Skype upon request. You may open a free Skype account.
Search for bccisprof and send me an invite. I will respond and then we will be able to chat.
If you have any questions about anything covered in class, please feel free to contact me.
If you need to communicate with me, the ONLY guaranteed way to reach me is by email.
You may also contact me via Facebook, Messenger, or Skype.
Course Workload:
There is a tremendous amount of work involved in learning how to program. You
should be prepared to spend, on the average, 12 hours per week running your programs.
This is in addition to time spent in class and time spent studying for the exams. If you
don't have the time, don't kid yourself; drop the course.
Academic Calendar:
Please check the academic calendar for important dates regarding deadlines for
dropping classes, etc. here:
http://www.brooklyn.cuny.edu/web/about/administration/enrollment/registrar/bulletins/s
pring21/calendar.php